Hi. This weekly review is becoming more and more efficient.
Subscriptions reach new records at each episode, and I hope it will be the same for this episode.
So much so that this channel has become the first Youtube channel created by a politician.
We already are 31000, and we'll be many more in the near future,
and this is a way of creating a medium that gets around other media.
So if you want to know what I have to say, then visit my channel.
And thanks to you who click and subscribe, other people will have to do the same.
This channel is also a tool in our struggle.
Now, I'll try to run over my topics quickly, otherwise people will complain that the video is too long.
I'm sorry about that but I'm doing my best.
So let me begin. The first topic I'll discuss, before any other,
is a petition that I want to support.
This petition was written by famous chefs and has been signed by 18.000 people.
They protest against the Bayer Monsanto merger.
Bayer is the main German chemical-producing company,
and Monsanto is the evil North-American company that produces basically everything that makes people's life miserable.
This merger is really astounding ! The two of them will now be able to distribute toxic products and the medicine that cure their effects:
Pesticides, OMGs, in short all that constitute today's most important issue.
In the course of our convention that was held last weekend, I said that revolution might begin on our plates,
meaning that people won't begin to realize that they are being exploited by the system just by looking at their payslip,
but rather by analyzing what they eat.
They'll think : "We already work hard, and on top of that we are forced to eat junk food that makes us ill"
that makes our children ill, that causes congenital malformations" and all these horrible things you know about.
So this petition was written by chefs, who are not impassioned ecologists, but rather people who do what they like, their job.
Until then, they above all cared about the products they transformed, and all of a sudden,
this merger became the straw that broke the camel's back.
It not only produces immoral effects, some sorts of monsters that make you ill and cure you at the same time,
but it is above all an attack on the diversity of food and agricultural products.
This people aim at standardizing. Products must be identical, produced in the same way, and seeds must be owned by the same group.
Maybe some of you saw that creepy movie, 'The Omen', in which the devil is embodied in a child.
At the end of the movie, the devil creates a horrible company that does precisely what Bayer and Monsanto are doing,
a company that strangles the world, by preventing peasants from owning their seeds and by standardizing products.
We the French are very concerned about this, not only because we love cuisine,
(we are one of the rare countries where chefs are respected),
but because we, like the chefs, care about the diversity of productions: vegetables, seeds, tomato or salad breeds,
all these things that are essential to taste, to nature itself.
We should realize that 40% of agricultural production is thrown away,
because fruits are not the size clients want, at least that's what people who sell them think.
So the production line is built on waste from start to finsh, and we need to stop this type of agriculture.
I talked about this issue during the convention of "La France Insoumise" last weekend,
and I think we should make it a key point in our political programmes.
In the programme of "La France Insoumise", we intend to use 100% of organic food in school canteens
because organic food should not be the privilege of those who have the means to buy it.
Our kids should all be able to eat healthy food, and not second or third class products.
You are aware that values are now inverted: poor people used to be represented as skinny, as they had nothing to eat,
whereas now, junk food causes an epidemic of obesity that is a great danger to people's health
This is the result of an appalling food-processing model that we need to stop quickly,
and this will happen if I happened to be the one in charge of this issue, and believe me,
sparks will fly for those who brought about this situation.
Ok. Now I already mentioned the convention twice, so I have to talk about it in more details.
First, let me skip the political aspects, you can watch the video if you want to know about them.
The most important aspect was the method used to organize the convention.
We benefited from absolutely all the techniques of our time.
We went beyond the old methods like congresses or meetings.
I already said it before and I'll repeat it, this was not a meeting, it was a convention.
We used methods that did not turn off or exclude people.
Most of you never went to a political meeting, whereas you are already familiar with what you see in the video of the convention.
Why? Because it is nothing else but a TV show, that's the way it was organized.
To make a comparison, it rather looks like a talk show or an entertainment show than an old-style political meeting.
It did not prevent people from speaking, quite the contrary.
How did we proceed? Some people spoke in the old way during 3, 4 or 5 minutes, not more.
Some people agreed to talk but only in a video.
They felt more comfortable in this way than before an audience of one thousand people,
which is an impressive experience that makes your hands shake along with the paper your read.
Some people even shot their own video
in a machine we created called the videograf, that was set at the entrance of the convention.
People could say what they had to say, share their thoughts,
and then interventions to be shown were selected through a drawing of lots.
Tens of them were made possible that would have not existed without this method.
Many of them were uploaded on the website, with others to come gradually.
Each chapter from the programme is discussed in these videos as you will see.
So what is the result of this organization?
First and foremost, it makes what we do visible, a bit like a demonstration,
which makes visible the anger and discontent of such and such social category.
This issue is very important don't you think?
It's a bit like when people wonder what the point of gay prides are. Ask yourself why!
The point is to show that gays are not ashamed,
that people are active, struggling, demanding rights.
It's the same with our convention. Is there any other political meeting that allows a mother
to speak about her starving children? No there is not.
Or someone that explains what a bedbug epidemic in a large estate is.
Let me tell you that only idiots smile when they here that,
because people presented their day-to-day life.
Also, union activists and whistleblowers took part in the convention.
I had fun reading a venomous comment on my Facebook page.
I always have the giggles when I read such comments.
You know, there are mean people that want to vent their spleen on you.
One of them wrote that this event was "among peers",
meaning that only upper middle class people were present.
Well, this guy did not observe what was going on very well.
On the contrary, the speakers were ordinary people with ordinary lives
and normal jobs that make social life possible, and I'm very proud of that.
You'll notice something else if you watch the video.
For the first time, there were as many women as there were men in a political rally,
not only among those who were elected, but we drew lots for the 650 people with as many women as there were men.
And what was interesting was that achieving male-female parity was a very easy thing to do.
I'm very proud of that, because the general mood in the audience was quite different from what we usually see.
People sat around tables, not in rows on bleachers, which might have been frightening for you who watched.
Why do I say "you who watch"? Because there were people in the room, and people who watched the convention on the internet.
Two or three thousands people were watching the live stream during two days.
We are very proud of this achievement, because we succeeded in broadcasting the convention for 11 hours without any technical incident.
Of course the staff was made of professionals who worked on a voluntary basis, but also of non-professionals.
So the organization of the convention was a real success, and many of you congratulated us.
You understood that the convention involved a lot of work, organization and discipline, and the staff was exhausted at the end.
And there was something else that you could not see just by watching the live stream. It was the only problem we had.
The tweets and short messages you sent did not appear on screen,
but  people sent tweets and short messages which were read aloud during the whole convention .
We used a method that of course needs to be improved, because this experience was a prototype,
but this way of proceeding corresponds to the conception of a movement, in contrast with that of a political party.
These conceptions are distinct, they do not entail the same kinds of involvement.
What impressed me was that there were one thousand of us in the room,
and when I delivered my speech at the end of the convention, 7500 of us were watching live.
An hour and a half speech is a long speech, but they watched it entirely.
For the whole weekend, I did not come in the room, because I did not want the convention process to be disturbed by the presence of the candidate.
I did not want to give the impression that I wanted to make myself the center of attention
or that my presence could be an obstacle to those who had something to say and who were working together.
I think we proved that the movement is mature.
Of course, this movement is ultimately a political programme and a candidate.
But it is also a collective made up of all these people whose quality is autonomy.
Let me repeat this: what matters is that everyone acts as he or she wants to.
Everyone should contribute proportionately to their will.
I think this will be one of the characteristics of this campaign.
Ok. Now this was for the good news.
Now there was also bad news this week.
On Monday, a trial began, that of a whistleblower from the movement.
She drew attention on the ill-treatment of autistic children in the city of Moussaron.
This is not just any case, because it was the only case used by the UNO to illustrate ill-treatment of children.
This case is unbelievable. Those who are suspected of ill-treatment are not prosecuted
whereas the only person who is prosecuted is the one who blew the whistle!
There is something monstrous in this situation,
this woman has lost everything, she has lost her job, she has been accused,
She suffered terrible pressure and was threatened so much that she had to live under police protection for a time, and she's the one who is prosecuted.
Her name is Céline Boussié. On my behalf and that of those who are currently informing about this situation,
I want to convey to her our affection and fraternity, and tell her that we understand how difficult it is for her.
I was glad to hear that a group of fellows offered their help, like Marie-Laure Darrigade and other friends,
who were there in this harsh situation.
Besides, they had a stroke of bad luck, they got on a train that got stuck for hours.
Céline, Marie-Laure and the rest took a train right after they left the convention in order to go to the court.
Their weekend was really harsh on a physical level.
This sort of things happen when you are politically involved,
but nothing will deter them from keeping on the fight, neither now nor never.
Now let us move on to the trial of the Goodyear workers which will take place on Wednesday.
This case is really heavy.
Why? Because for the first time in decades, workers fighting for their jobs are sentenced to imprisonment.
The case has seemed odd from the start, especially when you know its circumstances.
Why were they sentenced to imprisonment? Because they were defending their jobs.
The union representatives had managed to meet the company's directors.
They were on their way to the office to meet them
to find out whether the propositions had been accepted or if they had had a discussion with the unions.
And when they entered the office, there was no one to speak with.
The two direction's representatives were in a room downstairs, and they had already told the workers that they were fired.
Needless to say that things were going badly and that the workers there were very angry.
It's a good job that the union representatives, thanks to their experience, had the presence of mind
to go downstairs to give them a piece of their mind, which is normal since it is their job,
they were not supposed to congratulate them over a coffee, were they?
Workers were really angry, but thankfully the representatives were there.
Their being in the room calmed things down
And I think we could say that thanks to them, things did not go worse.
It could have been really worse.
Anyhow, how could we accept their being sentenced to imprisonment?
I think we will see that the movement is not over.
Let me tell you that if I am elected, I will not only repeal the El Khomri Act
and all these laws that allow companies to exploit workers, to lie to them and to close their factory
after they have been squeezed dry at work,
but I will immediately grant a general social pardon,
contrary to François Hollande who made me the promise of doing that in July 2012,
but who then refused to pardon the numerous union activists who, under Nicolas Sarkozy's presidency,
had been harshly criminalized and condemned in every possible way, sometimes in absolutely absurd circumstances.
For instance there was a guy who had been condemned for supposedly  injuring policemen with one egg.
There was also a comrade who had been condemned for sticking more than a thousand CGT stickers in her town.
They accused the local union leader and gave her a big fine.
People who really struggled hard had been punished very severely.
So we thought it was normal that the newly-elected president should grant a social pardon.
But that did not happen.
All I can tell now you is that I will do it.
We should be able to calm things down
and we should somehow be able to reckognize the importance of union activists
and whistleblowers for the common good.
You are aware that if some of us do not stand up to the powerful, the powerful will do whatever they want and ill-treat people.
So this trial will take place on Wednedsday,
and then on the 20th of October, the commercial court will give a verdict concerning Ecopla ,
the only company in France that specializes in aluminium packaging.
Its clients already agreed to put in orders
but without apparent reason, the commercial court decided it was best to sell the machines to an Italian company,
that will acquire Ecopla's order back and machines, leaving Ecopla's workers without nothing
This decision is completely absurd, since Ecopla's workers have agreed on creating a workers' cooperative
in order to produce packaging on their own, as the Pilpa workers, who produce ice creams,
or as the former Fralib workers who produce tea, maybe you remember them.
Workers' cooperatives have now become a solution to desindustrialization.
So with the programme of La France Insoumise, workers will have a pre-emptive right on their company
if it is on sale. If a capitalist wants to sale a company, workers must have the priority to run it if they want to,
because after all, they made the company grow.
So these three judicial events will take place this week.
They are important for us all, and I wanted to tell you about them.
Now I want to end this video by speaking ill of banks.
They are going to increase banking fees. What kind of work do banks do for such a high price?
They keep on increasing fees, and now they are going to tax current accounts.
This is unacceptable.
There is something that has always seemed odd to me:
people grumble over income tax, but  bank fees are nothing but a private tax, don't you think?
I do not see any other way to name bank fees.
When you have a credit card, they tax you, supposedly for managing your account and your card blabla.
And when you use your credit card, your banker charges a fee.
For some cards, the fee is very important,
it is not just 1.5 or 2 %, but 3 or 4 %. What does the banker do for that price?
Did he turn the light on? Did he switch the heat on? Did he cook for the restaurant?
No! He did nothing but levy a private tax on consumption, and this is unacceptable.
Some banks are useless for production. They do not invest.
They do not lend money to companies so that they may buy machines  etc.
or so that big companies may launch action plans that could consequently give some work to smaller companies.
They do nothing of the sort. They just take all the money they can and put it in the financial sphere
which has of course bad consequences at regular intervals since speculative bubbles burst
and have devastating effects on all the economy.
I really wanted to say that I am against this way of proceeding
and the toxic role played by banks.
We need banks for the circulation of money in the social piping, for two reasons.
First, to circulate a general equivalent, that's what money is, an equivalent between two commodities.
Second, to distribute credit, which means to anticipate, to enable people to invest.
But banks do not do that although they have enough money to do so.
Credit and the circulation of money are what matters.
It is time that money becomes a common  good again.
It should no longer be a private good owned by institutions that make profits with it
Ok, it is normal that they make profits, but this is not profit, it is pure and simple parasitism,
and it is harmful to economy.
So this was my weekly review, next time I'll tell you about other topics.
Let me just add that subscribing to my channel improves the balance of power with those who want to silence us,
because subscribing is a way to tell them they lost the game.